Poems to train AI: 
#OLSON#BEGIN_AUTHOR
 
#BEGIN
As the dead prey upon us,
they are the dead in ourselves,
awake, my sleeping ones, I cry out to you,
disentangle the nets of being!
 
I pushed my car, it had been sitting so long unused.
I thought the tires looked as though they only needed air.
But suddenly the huge underbody was above me, and the rear tires
were masses of rubber and thread variously clinging together
 
as were the dead souls in the living room, gathered
about my mother, some of them taking care to pass
beneath the beam of the movie projector, some record
playing on the victrola, and all of them
desperate with the tawdriness of their life in hell
 
I turned to the young man on my right and asked, “How is it,
there?” And he begged me protestingly don’t ask, we are poor
poor. And the whole room was suddenly posters and presentations
of brake linings and other automotive accessories, cardboard
displays, the dead roaming from one to another
as bored back in life as they are in hell, poor and doomed
to mere equipments
 
                               my mother, as alive as ever she was, asleep
when I entered the house as I often found her in a rocker
under the lamp, and awaking, as I came up to her, as she ever had
 
I found out she returns to the house once a week, and with her
the throng of the unknown young who center on her as much in death
as other like suited and dressed people did in life
 
O the dead!
 
                    and the Indian woman and I
                    enabled the blue deer
                    to walk
 
                    and the blue deer talked,
                    in the next room,
                    a Negro talk
 
                    it was like walking a jackass,
                    and its talk
                    was the pressing gabber of gammers
                    of old women
 
                    and we helped walk it around the room
                    because it was seeking socks
                    or shoes for its hooves
                    now that it was acquiring
 
                    human possibilities
 
In the five hindrances men and angels
stay caught in the net, in the immense nets
which spread out across each plane of being, the multiple nets
which hamper at each step of the ladders as the angels
and the demons
and men
go up and down
 
                                 Walk the jackass
                                 Hear the victrola
                                 Let the automobile
                                 be tucked into a corner of the white fence
                                 when it is a white chair. Purity
 
is only an instant of being, the trammels
 
recur
 
In the five hindrances, perfection
is hidden
                                 I shall get
                                 to the place
                                 10 minutes late.
 
                                 It will be 20 minutes
                                 of 9. And I don’t know,
 
                                 without the car,
 
                                 how I shall get there
 
O peace, my mother, I do not know
how differently I could have done
what I did or did not do.
 
                                 That you are back each week
                                 that you fall asleep
                                 with your face to the right
 
                                 that you are present there
                                 when I come in as you were
                                 when you were alive
 
                                 that you are as solid, and your flesh
                                 is as I knew it, that you have the company
                                 I am used to your having
 
                                 but o, that you all find it
                                 such a cheapness!
 
o peace, mother, for the mammothness
of the comings and goings
of the ladders of life
 
The nets we are entangled in. Awake,
my soul, let the power into the last wrinkle
of  being, let none of the threads and rubber of the tires
be left upon the earth. Let even your mother
go. Let there be only paradise
 
The desperateness is, that the instant
which is also paradise (paradise
is happiness) dissolves
into the next instant, and power
flows to meet the next occurrence
 
                                 Is it any wonder
                                 my mother comes back?
                                 Do not that throng
                                 rightly seek the room
                                 where they might expect
                                 happiness? They did not complain
                                 of life, they obviously wanted
                                 the movie, each other, merely to pass
                                 among each other there,
                             where the real is, even to the display cards,
                             to be out of hell
 
                             The poverty
                             of hell
 
O souls, in life and in death,
make, even as you sleep, even in sleep
know what wind
even under the crankcase of the ugly automobile
lifts it away, clears the sodden weights of goods,
equipment, entertainment, the foods the Indian woman,
the filthy blue deer, the 4 by 3 foot ‘Viewbook,’
the heaviness of the old house, the stuffed inner room
lifts the sodden nets
 
                                 and they disappear as ghosts do,
                                 as spider webs, nothing
                                 before the hand of man
 
                                 The vent! You must have the vent,
                                 or you shall die. Which means
                                 never to die, the ghastliness
 
                                 of going, and forever
                                 coming back, returning
                                 to the instants which were not lived
 
                                 O mother, this I could not have done,
                                 I could not have lived what you didn’t,
                                 I am myself netted in my own being
 
                                 I want to die. I want to make that instant, too,
                                 perfect
 
                                 O my soul, slip
                                 the cog
 
 
II
 
The death in life (death itself)
is endless, eternity
is the false cause
 
The knot is other wise, each topological corner
presents itself, and no sword
cuts it, each knot is itself its fire
 
each knot of which the net is made
is for the hands to untake
the knot’s making. And touch alone
can turn the knot into its own flame
 
                          (o mother, if you had once touched me
 
                          o mother, if I had once touched you)
 
The car did not burn. Its underside
was not presented to me
a grotesque corpse. The old man
 
merely removed it as I looked up at it,
and put it in a corner of the picket fence
like was it my mother’s white dog?
 
or a child’s chair
 
                                 The woman,
                                 playing on the grass,
                                 with her son (the woman next door)
 
                                 was angry with me whatever it was
                                 slipped across the playpen or whatever
                                 she had out there on the grass
 
                                 And I was quite flip in reply
                                 that anyone who used plastic
                                 had to expect things to skid
 
                                 and break, that I couldn’t worry
                                 that her son might have been hurt
                                 by whatever it was I sent skidding
 
                                 down on them.
 
                                 It was just then I went into my house
                                 and to my utter astonishment
                                 found my mother sitting there
 
                                 as she always had sat, as must she always
                                 forever sit there her head lolling
                                 into sleep? Awake, awake my mother
 
                                 what wind will lift you too
                                 forever from the tawdriness,
                                 make you rich as all those souls
 
                                 crave crave crave
 
                                 to be rich?
 
They are right. We must have
what we want. We cannot afford
not to. We have only one course:
 
the nets which entangle us are flames
 
                                         O souls, burn
                                         alive, burn now
 
                                         that you may forever
                                         have peace, have
 
                                         what you crave
 
                                         O souls,
                                         go into everything,
                                         let not one knot pass
                                         through your fingers
 
                                         let not any they tell you
                                         you must sleep as the net
                                         comes through your authentic hands
 
                                         What passes
                                         is what is, what shall be, what has
                                         been, what hell and heaven is
                                         is earth to be rent, to shoot you
                                         through the screen of flame which each knot
                                         hides as all knots are a wall ready
                                         to be shot open by you
 
                                                                               the nets of being
                                         are only eternal if you sleep as your hands
                                         ought to be busy. Method, method
 
                                         I too call on you to come
                                         to the aid of all men, to women most
                                         who know most, to woman to tell
                                         men to awake. Awake, men,
                                         awake
 
I ask my mother
to sleep. I ask her
to stay in the chair.
My chair
is in the corner of the fence.
She sits by the fireplace made of paving stones. The blue deer
need not trouble either of us.
 
And if she sits in happiness the souls
who trouble her and me
will also rest. The automobile
 
has been hauled away.
 

#END
#OLSON#END_AUTHOR

#POUND#BEGIN_AUTHOR
#BEGIN
Cantico del Sole

The thought of what America would be like
If the Classics had a wide circulation
                      Troubles my sleep,
The thought of what America,
The thought of what America,
The thought of what America would be like
If the Classics had a wide circulation
                      Troubles my sleep.
Nunc dimittis, now lettest thou thy servant,
Now lettest thou thy servant
                      Depart in peace.
The thought of what America,
The thought of what America,
The thought of what America would be like
If the Classics had a wide circulation . . .
                      Oh well!
                      It troubles my sleep.

#END
#POUND#END_AUTHOR

#ELIOT#BEGIN_AUTHOR
#BEGIN

Gerontion

Thou hast nor youth nor age
                         But as it were an after dinner sleep
                         Dreaming of both.
Here I am, an old man in a dry month,
Being read to by a boy, waiting for rain.
I was neither at the hot gates
Nor fought in the warm rain
Nor knee deep in the salt marsh, heaving a cutlass,
Bitten by flies, fought.
My house is a decayed house,
And the Jew squats on the window sill, the owner,
Spawned in some estaminet of Antwerp,
Blistered in Brussels, patched and peeled in London.
The goat coughs at night in the field overhead;
Rocks, moss, stonecrop, iron, merds.
The woman keeps the kitchen, makes tea,
Sneezes at evening, poking the peevish gutter.
                                              I an old man,
A dull head among windy spaces.
Signs are taken for wonders.  ‘We would see a sign!’
The word within a word, unable to speak a word,
Swaddled with darkness.  In the juvescence of the year
Came Christ the tiger

In depraved May, dogwood and chestnut, flowering judas,
To be eaten, to be divided, to be drunk
Among whispers; by Mr. Silvero
With caressing hands, at Limoges
Who walked all night in the next room;

By Hakagawa, bowing among the Titians;
By Madame de Tornquist, in the dark room
Shifting the candles; Fräulein von Kulp
Who turned in the hall, one hand on the door. Vacant shuttles
Weave the wind.  I have no ghosts,
An old man in a draughty house
Under a windy knob.

After such knowledge, what forgiveness? Think now
History has many cunning passages, contrived corridors
And issues, deceives with whispering ambitions,
Guides us by vanities.  Think now
She gives when our attention is distracted
And what she gives, gives with such supple confusions
That the giving famishes the craving.  Gives too late
What’s not believed in, or is still believed,
In memory only, reconsidered passion.  Gives too soon
Into weak hands, what’s thought can be dispensed with
Till the refusal propagates a fear.  Think
Neither fear nor courage saves us.  Unnatural vices
Are fathered by our heroism.  Virtues
Are forced upon us by our impudent crimes.
These tears are shaken from the wrath-bearing tree.

The tiger springs in the new year.  Us he devours.  Think at last
We have not reached conclusion, when I
Stiffen in a rented house.  Think at last
I have not made this show purposelessly
And it is not by any concitation
Of the backward devils.
I would meet you upon this honestly.
I that was near your heart was removed therefrom
To lose beauty in terror, terror in inquisition.
I have lost my passion: why should I need to keep it
Since what is kept must be adulterated?
I have lost my sight, smell, hearing, taste and touch:
How should I use it for your closer contact?

These with a thousand small deliberations
Protract the profit of their chilled delirium,
Excite the membrane, when the sense has cooled,
With pungent sauces, multiply variety
In a wilderness of mirrors.  What will the spider do
Suspend its operations, will the weevil
Delay?  De Bailhache, Fresca, Mrs. Cammel, whirled
Beyond the circuit of the shuddering Bear
In fractured atoms. Gull against the wind, in the windy straits
Of Belle Isle, or running on the Horn,
White feathers in the snow, the Gulf claims,
And an old man driven by the Trades
To a sleepy corner.

                                   Tenants of the house,
Thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season.

#END
#ELIOT#END_AUTHOR

#STEIN#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
Idem the Same: A Valentine to Sherwood Anderson

 I knew too that through them I knew too that he was through, I knew too that he threw them. I knew too that they were through, I knew too I knew too, I knew I knew them.
        I knew to them.
        If they tear a hunter through, if they tear through a hunter, if they tear through a hunt and a hunter, if they tear through different sizes of the six, the different sizes of the six which are these, a woman with a white package under one arm and a black package under the other arm and dressed in brown with a white blouse, the second Saint Joseph the third a hunter in a blue coat and black garters and a plaid cap, a fourth a knife grinder who is full faced and a very little woman with black hair and a yellow hat and an excellently smiling appropriate soldier. All these as you please.
        In the meantime examples of the same lily. In this way please have you rung.
 
WHAT DO I SEE?
        A very little snail.
        A medium sized turkey.
        A small band of sheep.
        A fair orange tree.
        All nice wives are like that.
        Listen to them from here.
        Oh.
        You did not have an answer.
        Here.
        Yes.
 
A VERY VALENTINE.
        Very fine is my valentine.
        Very fine and very mine.
        Very mine is my valentine very mine and very fine.
        Very fine is my valentine and mine, very fine very mine and mine is my valentine.
 
WHY DO YOU FEEL DIFFERENTLY.
        Why do you feel differently about a very little snail and a big one.
        Why do you feel differently about a medium sized turkey and a very large one.
        Why do you feel differently about a small band of sheep and several sheep that are riding.
        Why do you feel differently about a fair orange tree and one that has blossoms as well.
        Oh very well.
        All nice wives are like that.
 
 
 
        To Be
        No Please.
        To Be
        They can please
        Not to be
        Do they please.
        Not to be
        Do they not please
        Yes please.
        Do they please
        No please.
        Do they not please
        No please.
        Do they please.
        Please.
        If you please.
        And if you please.
        And if they please
        And they please.
        To be pleased
        Not to be pleased.
        Not to be displeased.
        To be pleased and to please.
 
KNEELING
        One two three four five six seven eight nine and ten.
        The tenth is a little one kneeling and giving away a rooster with this feeling.
        I have mentioned one, four five seven eight and nine.
        Two is also giving away an animal.
        Three is changed as to disposition.
        Six is in question if we mean mother and daughter, black and black caught her, and she offers to be three she offers it to me.
        That is very right and should come out below and just so.
 
BUNDLES FOR THEM.
A HISTORY OF GIVING BUNDLES.
        We are able to notice that each one in a way carried a bundle, they were not a trouble to them nor were they all bundles as some of them were chickens some of them pheasants some of them sheep and some of them bundles, they were not a trouble to them and then indeed we learned that it was the principal recreation and they were so arranged that they were not given away, and to-day they were given away.
        I will not look at them again.
        They will not look for them again.
        They have not seen them here again.
        They are in there and we hear them again.
        In which way are stars brighter than they are. When we have come to this decision. We mention many thousands of buds. And when I close my eyes I see them.
 
        If you hear her snore
        It is not before you love her
        You love her so that to be her beau is very lovely
        She is sweetly there and her curly hair is very lovely
        She is sweetly here and I am very near and that is very lovely.
        She is my tender sweet and her little feet are stretched out well which is a treat and very lovely
        Her little tender nose is between her little eyes which close and are very lovely.
        She is very lovely and mine which is very lovely.
 
ON HER WAY.
        If you can see why she feel that she kneels if you can see why he knows that he shows what he bestows, if you can see why they share what they share, need we question that there is no doubt that by this time if they had intended to come they would have sent some notice of such intention. She and they and indeed the decision itself is not early dissatisfaction.
 
IN THIS WAY.
        Keys please, it is useless to alarm any one it is useless to alarm some one it is useless to be alarming and to get fertility in gardens in salads in heliotrope and in dishes. Dishes and wishes are mentioned and dishes and wishes are not capable of darkness. We like sheep. And so does he.
 
                                                                  LET US DESCRIBE.
         Let us describe how they went. It was a very windy night and the road although in excellent condition and extremely well graded has many turnings and although the curves are not sharp the rise is considerable. It was a very windy night and some of the larger vehicles found it more prudent not to venture. In consequence some of those who had planned to go were unable to do so. Many others did go and there was a sacrifice, of what shall we, a sheep, a hen, a cock, a village, a ruin, and all that and then that having been blessed let us bless it.

#END
#STEIN#END_AUTHOR

#BUNTING#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
Coda

A strong song tows
us, long earsick.
Blind, we follow
rain slant, spray flick
to fields we do not know.

Night, float us.
Offshore wind, shout,
ask the sea
what’s lost, what’s left,
what horn sunk,
what crown adrift.

Where we are who knows
of kings who sup
while day fails? Who,
swinging his axe
to fell kings, guesses
where we go?
#END
#BUNTING#END_AUTHOR

#MOORE#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN

Black Earth

Openly, yes,
         With the naturalness
         Of the hippopotamus or the alligator
When it climbs out on the bank to experience the

Sun, I do these
Things which I do, which please
         No one but myself.  Now I breathe and now I am sub-
         Merged; the blemishes stand up and shout when the object

In view was a
Renaissance; shall I say
         The contrary?  The sediment of the river which
         Encrusts my joints, makes me very gray but I am used

To it, it may
Remain there; do away
         With it and I am myself done away with, for the
         Patina of circumstance can but enrich what was

There to begin
With.  This elephant skin
         Which I inhabit, fibered over like the shell of
         The coco-nut, this piece of black glass through which no light

Can filter—cut
Into checkers by rut
         Upon rut of unpreventable experience—
         It is a manual for the peanut-tongued and the

Hairy toed.  Black
But beautiful, my back
         Is full of the history of power.  Of power?  What
         Is powerful and what is not?  My soul shall never

Be cut into
By a wooden spear; through-
         Out childhood to the present time, the unity of
         Life and death has been expressed by the circumference

Described by my
Trunk; nevertheless, I
         Perceive feats of strength to be inexplicable after
         All; and I am on my guard; external poise, it

Has its centre
Well nurtured—we know
         Where—in pride, but spiritual poise, it has its centre where ?
         My ears are sensitized to more than the sound of

The wind.  I see
And I hear, unlike the
         Wandlike body of which one hears so much, which was made
         To see and not to see; to hear and not to hear,

That tree trunk without   
Roots, accustomed to shout
         Its own thoughts to itself like a shell, maintained intact   
         By who knows what strange pressure of the  atmosphere; that   

Spiritual   
Brother to the coral
         Plant, absorbed into which, the equable sapphire light
         Becomes a nebulous green.  The I of each is to

The I of each,
A kind of fretful speech
         Which sets a limit on itself; the elephant is?
         Black earth preceded by a tendril?  It is to that

Phenomenon
The above formation,   
         Translucent like the atmosphere—a cortex merely—
         That on which darts cannot strike decisively the first

Time, a substance
Needful as an instance
         Of the indestructibility of matter; it   
         Has looked at the electricity and at the earth-

Quake and is still
Here; the name means thick.  Will
         Depth be depth, thick skin be thick, to one who can see no
         Beautiful element of unreason under it?
#END
#MOORE#END_AUTHOR

#CRANE#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
The Air Plant

Grand Cayman
This tuft that thrives on saline nothingness,
Inverted octopus with heavenward arms
Thrust parching from a palm-bole hard by the cove⎯
A bird almost⎯of almost bird alarms,

Is pulmonary to the wind that jars
Its tentacles, horrific in their lurch.
The lizard’s throat, held bloated for a fly,
Balloons but warily from this throbbing perch.

The needles and hack-saws of cactus bleed
A milk of earth when stricken off the stalk;
But this,⎯defenseless, thornless, sheds no blood,
Almost no shadow⎯but the air’s thin talk.

Angelic Dynamo! Ventriloquist of the Blue!
While beachward creeps the shark-swept Spanish Main
By what conjunctions do the winds appoint
Its apotheosis, at last⎯the hurricane!
#END
#CRANE#END_AUTHOR

#SANDBURG#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
The Abracadabra Boys

The abracadabra boys—have they been in the stacks and cloisters? Have they picked up languages for throwing into chow mein poems?
Have they been to a sea of jargons and brought back jargons? Their salutations go: Who cometh? and, It ith I cometh.
They know postures from impostures, pistils from pustules, to hear them tell it. They foregather and make pitty pat with each other in Latin and in their private pig Latin, very ofay.
They give with passwords. “Who cometh?” “A kumquat cometh.” “And how cometh the kumquat?” “On an abbadabba, ancient and honorable sire, ever and ever on an abbadabba.”
Do they have fun? Sure—their fun is being what they are, like our fun is being what we are—only they are more sorry for us being what we are than we are for them being what they are.
Pointing at you, at us, at the rabble, they sigh and say, these abracadabra boys, “They lack jargons. They fail to distinguish between pustules and pistils. They knoweth not how the kumquat cometh.”

#END
#SANDBURG#END_AUTHOR

#CUMMINGS#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
[All in green went my love riding]

All in green went my love riding
on a great horse of gold
into the silver dawn.
 
four lean hounds crouched low and smiling
the merry deer ran before.
 
Fleeter be they than dappled dreams
the swift sweet deer
the red rare deer.
 
Four red roebuck at a white water
the cruel bugle sang before.
 
Horn at hip went my love riding
riding the echo down
into the silver dawn.
 
four lean hounds crouched low and smiling
the level meadows ran before.
 
Softer be they than slippered sleep
the lean lithe deer
the fleet flown deer.
 
Four fleet does at a gold valley
the famished arrow sang before.
 
Bow at belt went my love riding
riding the mountain down
into the silver dawn.
 
four lean hounds crouched low and smiling
the sheer peaks ran before.
 
Paler be they than daunting death
the sleek slim deer
the tall tense deer.
 
Four tall stags at a green mountain
the lucky hunter sang before.
 
All in green went my love riding
on a great horse of gold
into the silver dawn.
 
four lean hounds crouched low and smiling
my heart fell dead before.

#END
#CUMMINGS#END_AUTHOR

#WILLIAMS#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN
Between Walls

the back wings
of the

hospital where
nothing

will grow lie
cinders

in which shine
the broken

pieces of a green
bottle
#END
#WILLIAMS#END_AUTHOR

#STEVENS#BEGIN_AUTHOR

#BEGIN

Anecdote of the Jar

I placed a jar in Tennessee,
And round it was, upon a hill.
It made the slovenly wilderness
Surround that hill.

The wilderness rose up to it,
And sprawled around, no longer wild.
The jar was round upon the ground
And tall and of a port in air.

It took dominion everywhere.
The jar was gray and bare.
It did not give of bird or bush,
Like nothing else in Tennessee.
#END
#STEVENS#END_AUTHOR
